product_requirements.md, before:

Alright, let's break down your Figma plugin requirements step-by-step. The plugin will rely on user inputs, design setups, and GPT-4o API integration for automated branding suggestions. Here’s a comprehensive approach to the technical requirements, data flows, and feature details:

---

## 🎯 **Objective:**
Build a Figma plugin that takes various brand and design inputs, then automates the setup of Figma pages, frames, presets, and labels tailored to the selected branding and design themes.

## 🛠 **Technical Requirements and Components**

### 1. **User Interface (UI) for Inputs**
   The plugin needs an interactive UI in Figma where users can:
   - **Select Design Type** (e.g., mobile app, web app, social media creatives)
   - **Input Color Presets** (HEX/RGB values or predefined palette choices)
   - **Choose Mobile First / Web First Layout**
   - **Select Font Family** from Google Fonts (integrate Google Fonts API for dropdown options)
   - **Upload Branding Assets** (Logo files, brand elements)
   - **Input Brand Voice and Tone Guidelines** for GPT-4o’s use in copywriting
   - **Corner Radius Choice** for theme-based corner styling
   - **Shadow Theme Choice** for uniform shadow styling across elements

   **Flow:**
   - **Step 1**: User opens the plugin and fills in inputs across different fields.
   - **Step 2**: Once inputs are set, the user clicks a "Generate" button to apply the setup.

### 2. **Data Handling and Preprocessing**
   - Store and validate user inputs temporarily before use.
   - Convert and format color presets, font choices, and other stylistic settings into a structured JSON that can be referenced throughout the plugin.
   - Parse and sanitize uploaded logo and branding assets to prepare them for use in the frames.

   **Data Flow:**
   - **Input → JSON Configuration**: Convert all user inputs into a JSON config to pass into the Figma canvas generation logic.
   
### 3. **API Integration with GPT-4o for Branding Messaging**
   - **Endpoint**: Set up an endpoint for GPT-4o to generate messaging guidelines based on the provided brand voice.
   - **Request/Response**: Send JSON data with "Brand Voice Tone Messaging Guidelines" and receive branding/copy suggestions.
   - **Usage**: Use GPT-4o’s response to auto-fill placeholder text fields on frames (e.g., taglines, descriptions).

   **Flow**:
   - **Config Data → GPT-4o API**: Send the brand tone guidelines to GPT-4o, receive suggested text, and use it to auto-populate copy fields in Figma frames.

### 4. **Page and Frame Setup in Figma**
   - **Page Structure**: Create pages based on design type (e.g., “Mobile App UI” page, “Web App Layout” page).
   - **Frame Setup**:
     - Use layout presets for mobile-first or web-first configurations.
     - Set up frames based on selected theme presets (corner radius, shadows).
     - Label frames in big text (e.g., "Homepage," "Profile Screen") for easy reference.
     - Use placeholders for images, text blocks, etc., that can be later customized.

   **Flow**:
   - **Page → Frame Creation**: Dynamically create pages and frames based on design type and layout preferences.
   - **Frame Labeling**: Use input data (like page names and descriptions) to set large text labels.

### 5. **Auto-populate Color, Fonts, and Theme Styles**
   - Apply **Color Presets** to backgrounds, accents, and text elements.
   - Use **Google Fonts** API to fetch and apply the chosen font family throughout the project.
   - Apply **Corner Radius** and **Shadow Presets** based on the selected theme for buttons, cards, and other components.

   **Flow**:
   - **Apply Color/FONT/CSS Properties**: Parse the input and apply selected styling options on relevant elements (buttons, backgrounds, etc.).

### 6. **Logo and Branding Asset Placement**
   - Place logos and any uploaded branding elements in predefined placeholder frames on each page.
   - Allow users to position these manually if needed but provide initial auto-positioning.

   **Flow**:
   - **Position Logo/Assets**: Insert logo at prominent locations and set an appropriate size based on the frame.

---

## 🔄 **Flow of Data and Core Functional Components**

### **Plugin Flow**
1. **User Input Capture**: User fills in the required fields and submits.
2. **Data Processing**: Convert inputs to JSON, validate and structure for further use.
3. **API Call**: Send brand tone data to GPT-4o API and retrieve suggested copy text.
4. **Page and Frame Setup**:
   - Create pages according to design type.
   - Generate frames, label, and position placeholders.
5. **Styling Application**: 
   - Apply colors, fonts, corner radius, and shadow presets as per user choice.
6. **Final Branding Setup**:
   - Auto-populate placeholder text with GPT-4o copy suggestions.
   - Insert logos and branding assets into frames.

---

## 🧩 **Components to Code**

1. **Input Form in Plugin UI**:
   - Input fields for all required parameters.
   - File upload mechanism for logos and branding assets.
   - Dropdowns for choices (color, font, radius, shadow).

2. **API Configuration and Call Functions**:
   - Set up the call to GPT-4o for brand messaging guidance.
   - Parse the response to extract suggested copy and apply it to the frames.

3. **Figma Document Setup**:
   - Functions for creating pages, frames, and labeling frames in large text.
   - Dynamic layout adjustment based on mobile-first or web-first selection.

4. **Styling Functions**:
   - Apply color schemes, fonts, corner radius, and shadows.
   - Use Google Fonts API to apply the selected font family throughout.

5. **Branding Elements Placement**:
   - Code for auto-placing logos and other branding assets on frames.
   - Placeholder creation with appropriate branding setup.

---

## 🚀 **Example Data Flow**

```plaintext
User Input → JSON Configuration → GPT-4o API Call for Messaging → Figma Page & Frame Creation → Style Application (Color, Fonts, etc.) → Branding Placement (Logos, Copy Text)
```

---

This structure provides a comprehensive setup plan for a Figma plugin that can automate brand-centric layout and design initialization based on specific user inputs, creating a cohesive Figma environment that reflects the brand's style and guidelines right from the start. Let me know if you want to dive deeper into any part!

Commit message:

feat: implement design system configuration and validation
- Add ConfigTransformer for handling user input transformation
- Implement Zod validation schemas for config validation
- Set up plugin message handling and UI components
- Add brand voice integration with GPT-4
- Configure build system with Vite and TypeScript

product_requirements.md, after:

Alright, let's break down your Figma plugin requirements step-by-step. The plugin will rely on user inputs, design setups, and GPT-4o API integration for automated branding suggestions. Here’s a comprehensive approach to the technical requirements, data flows, and feature details:

---

## 🎯 **Objective:**
Build a Figma plugin that takes various brand and design inputs, then automates the setup of Figma pages, frames, presets, and labels tailored to the selected branding and design themes.

## 🛠 **Technical Requirements and Components**

### 1. **User Interface (UI) for Inputs**
   The plugin needs an interactive UI in Figma where users can:
   - **Select Design Type** (e.g., mobile app, web app, social media creatives)
   - **Input Color Presets** (HEX/RGB values or predefined palette choices)
   - **Choose Mobile First / Web First Layout**
   - **Select Font Family** from Google Fonts (integrate Google Fonts API for dropdown options)
   - **Upload Branding Assets** (Logo files, brand elements)
   - **Input Brand Voice and Tone Guidelines** for GPT-4o’s use in copywriting
   - **Corner Radius Choice** for theme-based corner styling
   - **Shadow Theme Choice** for uniform shadow styling across elements

   **Flow:**
   - **Step 1**: User opens the plugin and fills in inputs across different fields.
   - **Step 2**: Once inputs are set, the user clicks a "Generate" button to apply the setup.

### 2. **Data Handling and Preprocessing**
   - Store and validate user inputs temporarily before use.
   - Convert and format color presets:
     - HEX to RGB conversion for Figma compatibility
     - Color validation and sanitization
   - Font choices and other stylistic settings into a structured JSON
   - Parse and sanitize uploaded logo and branding assets

   **Data Flow:**
   - **Input → JSON Configuration**: Convert all user inputs into a JSON config to pass into the Figma canvas generation logic.
   
### 3. **API Integration with GPT-4o for Branding Messaging**
   - **Endpoint**: Set up an endpoint for GPT-4o to generate messaging guidelines based on the provided brand voice.
   - **Request/Response**: Send JSON data with "Brand Voice Tone Messaging Guidelines" and receive branding/copy suggestions.
   - **Usage**: Use GPT-4o’s response to auto-fill placeholder text fields on frames (e.g., taglines, descriptions).

   **Flow**:
   - **Config Data → GPT-4o API**: Send the brand tone guidelines to GPT-4o, receive suggested text, and use it to auto-populate copy fields in Figma frames.

### 4. **Page and Frame Setup in Figma**
   - **Layout Presets**:
     - Mobile First: 375x812 (iPhone dimensions)
     - Web First: 1440x900 (Desktop dimensions)
   - **Frame Setup**:
     - Automatic naming convention: "{layout} - {designType}"
     - Dynamic resizing based on layout choice

### 5. **Auto-populate Color, Fonts, and Theme Styles**
   - Apply **Color Presets** to backgrounds, accents, and text elements.
   - Use **Google Fonts** API to fetch and apply the chosen font family throughout the project.
   - Apply **Corner Radius** and **Shadow Presets** based on the selected theme for buttons, cards, and other components.

   **Flow**:
   - **Apply Color/FONT/CSS Properties**: Parse the input and apply selected styling options on relevant elements (buttons, backgrounds, etc.).

### 6. **Logo and Branding Asset Placement**
   - Place logos and any uploaded branding elements in predefined placeholder frames on each page.
   - Allow users to position these manually if needed but provide initial auto-positioning.

   **Flow**:
   - **Position Logo/Assets**: Insert logo at prominent locations and set an appropriate size based on the frame.

### 7. **Variable Management**
   - Support for variable scopes:

---

## 🔄 **Flow of Data and Core Functional Components**

### **Plugin Flow**
1. **User Input Capture**: User fills in the required fields and submits.
2. **Data Processing**: Convert inputs to JSON, validate and structure for further use.
3. **API Call**: Send brand tone data to GPT-4o API and retrieve suggested copy text.
4. **Page and Frame Setup**:
   - Create pages according to design type.
   - Generate frames, label, and position placeholders.
5. **Styling Application**: 
   - Apply colors, fonts, corner radius, and shadow presets as per user choice.
6. **Final Branding Setup**:
   - Auto-populate placeholder text with GPT-4o copy suggestions.
   - Insert logos and branding assets into frames.

---

## 🧩 **Components to Code**

1. **Input Form in Plugin UI**:
   - Input fields for all required parameters.
   - File upload mechanism for logos and branding assets.
   - Dropdowns for choices (color, font, radius, shadow).

2. **API Configuration and Call Functions**:
   - Set up the call to GPT-4o for brand messaging guidance.
   - Parse the response to extract suggested copy and apply it to the frames.

3. **Figma Document Setup**:
   - Functions for creating pages, frames, and labeling frames in large text.
   - Dynamic layout adjustment based on mobile-first or web-first selection.

4. **Styling Functions**:
   - Apply color schemes, fonts, corner radius, and shadows.
   - Use Google Fonts API to apply the selected font family throughout.

5. **Branding Elements Placement**:
   - Code for auto-placing logos and other branding assets on frames.
   - Placeholder creation with appropriate branding setup.

---

## 🚀 **Example Data Flow**

```plaintext
User Input → JSON Configuration → GPT-4o API Call for Messaging → Figma Page & Frame Creation → Style Application (Color, Fonts, etc.) → Branding Placement (Logos, Copy Text)
```

---

This structure provides a comprehensive setup plan for a Figma plugin that can automate brand-centric layout and design initialization based on specific user inputs, creating a cohesive Figma environment that reflects the brand's style and guidelines right from the start. Let me know if you want to dive deeper into any part!
